Configurable authentication, authorization, and SSL for Cruise Control API (#5073)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/cruise-control/ref-cruise-control-configuration.adoc

          key: cruise-control-log4j.properties
    # ...
----

[[api-security-configuration]]
[discrete]

> == Disabling API security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Cruise Control REST API security
```

> The Cruise Control REST API is secured by default to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations, such as decommissioning Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cruise Control REST API is secured with authentication and authorization to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations, such as decommissioning Kafka brokers.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that Cruise Control is always run with the default authentication and authorization enabled.
However, you can disable the built-in security settings if needed.
```

> However, you can disable these security settings if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable the built-in security if necessary.
```

> However, you can disable these security settings if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

          key: cruise-control-log4j.properties
    # ...
----

[[api-security-configuration]]
[discrete]
== Cruise Control REST API security

The Cruise Control REST API is secured with HTTP Basic authentication and SSL to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations, such as decommissioning Kafka brokers.

We recommend that Cruise Control in Strimzi is **only used with these settings enabled**.
You should not disable the built-in HTTP Basic authentication or SSL settings described below.

* To disable the built-in HTTP Basic authentication, set `webserver.security.enable` to `false`.
* To disable the built-in SSL, set `webserver.ssl.enable` to `false`.

> .Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authorization and authentication

Reviewer 2: "authorization and authentication" now it's more authentication/authorization and SSL

          key: cruise-control-log4j.properties
    # ...
----

[[api-security-configuration]]
[discrete]

> == API security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Disabling API security
```

> The Cruise Control API is secured by default to protect the cluster against any potentially destructive Cruise Control operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cruise Control REST API is secured by default to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations.
```

Reviewer: Please give an example of such an operation. 

"The Cruise Control REST API is secured by default to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations, such as decommissioning Kafka brokers."

> However, these security settings can be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can disable these security settings if needed.
```

> 

Reviewer: _Add a bulleted list:_

* To disable the built-in authorization, set `webserver.security.enable` to `false`.
* To disable the built-in authentication, set `webserver.ssl.enable` `false`.

Reviewer: Resolved.

> .An example of disabling Cruise Control API authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authorization.
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
# ...
----

> .An example of disabling Cruise Control API authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authentication.
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  cruiseControl:
    config:
       webserver.ssl.enable: false
# ...

> ----

Reviewer 3: This is weird. Does Cruise Control really enable HTTP Basic authentication with `.ssl.enable` option? And Authorization with `security.enable`? If it is like than then I guess we have no choice, but this seems highly misleading.

Author: Sorry I mixed these up in the original description of the PR, it should be:
- webserver.security.enable  -> HTTP Basic authentication (which I am using for authorization)
- webserver.ssl.enable  ->  HTTPS authentication

          key: cruise-control-log4j.properties
    # ...
----

[[api-security-configuration]]
[discrete]
== Disabling API security

The Cruise Control REST API is secured by default to protect the cluster against potentially destructive Cruise Control operations, such as decommissioning Kafka brokers.

However, you can disable these security settings if needed.

> * To disable the built-in authorization, set webserver.security.enable to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To disable the built-in authorization, set `webserver.security.enable` to `false`.
```

> * To disable the built-in authentication, set webserver.ssl.enable false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To disable the built-in authentication, set `webserver.ssl.enable` to `false`.
```

> .Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authorization
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
# ...
----

> .Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example Cruise Control configuration to disable API authentication
```
